Unit 6 - Basic CV Task image segmentation part (#137)
johko/computer-vision-course: chapters/en/Unit 6 - Basic CV Tasks/segmentation.mdx

> ## What is image segmentation ?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# What is Image Segmentation? 
```

> Image segmentation is slicing up an image into different parts. It's all about creating masks that spotlight each object in the picture. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Image segmentation is dividing an image into meaningful segments. It's all about creating masks that spotlight each object in the picture. 
```

Reviewer: It doesn't necessarily have to be an object, it can also be e.g. sky

> The intuition behind this task is *that it can be viewed as a classification for each pixel of the image*. Segmentation models are the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The intuition behind this task is *that it can be viewed as a classification for each pixel of the image*.
Segmentation models are the 
```
Can you remove the newline after "are the " because it will break formatting

> core models in various industries. They can be found in agriculture and autonomous driving. In the farming world, these models are used 

Reviewer: Same, there's newlines

Different types of segmentations can be applied depending on the context and the intended goal.
The most commonly defined segmentations are:
- **Semantic Segmentation**  This involves assigning the most probable class to each pixel. For example, in semantic segmentation, 
the model does not distinguish between two individual cats but rather focuses on the pixel class. It's all about classification of 
each pixel.
- **Instance Segmentation** This type involves identifying each instance of an object with a unique mask. It combines aspects of 
object detection and segmentation to differentiate between individual objects of the same class.
- **Panoptic Segmentation** A hybrid approach that combines elements of semantic and instance segmentation. It assigns a class and 
an instance to each pixel, effectively integrating the *what* and *where* aspects of the image.

![Comparaison of segmentation types](https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-vision/course-assets/blob/main/segmentation-types.png)

Choosing the right segmentation type depends on the context and the intended goal. One cool thing is that recent models allow you to achieve the three 

> segmentation types with a single model. I recommend you to check out this [article](https://huggingface.co/blog/mask2former), which introduces Mask2former, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
segmentation types with a single model. We recommend you to check out this [article](https://huggingface.co/blog/mask2former), which introduces Mask2former, 
```

> a new model by Meta that achieves the three segmentation types with only a Panoptic dataset

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a model by Meta that achieves the three segmentation types with only a panoptic segmentation dataset.
```
It's relatively old now

> ### Modern approach: ViT based

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Modern approach: ViT-based Segmentation
```

You've probably heard of U-Net, a popular network used for image segmentation. It's designed with several convolutional layers and works 
in two main phases: the downsampling phase, which compresses the image to understand its features, and the upsampling phase, which expands 
the image back to its original size for detailed segmentation.

Computer vision was once dominated by convolutional models, but it has recently shifted towards the vision transformer approach. 
An example is *[Segment anything model (SAM)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.02643)* that its popular prompt based model introduced 
in April 2023 by *Meta AI Research, FAIR*. The model is based on Vision Transformer (ViT) model focuses on creating a promptable 

> (It simply means that you can provide words to describe what you would like to segment in the image) segmentation model capable of 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(i.e. you can provide words to describe what you would like to segment in the image) segmentation model capable of 
```

zero-shot transfer on new images. The strength of the model comes from its training on the largest dataset available, which includes over 
1 billion masks on 11 million images. I recommend you play with [Meta's demo](https://segment-anything.com/) on a few images and even 
better you can play with the [model](https://huggingface.co/ybelkada/segment-anything) in transformers. 

Here is an example of how to use the model in transformers:
```python
from transformers import pipeline
pipe = pipeline("mask-generation", model="facebook/sam-vit-base", device=0)
 
raw_image = Image.open("path/to/image").convert("RGB")

masks = pipe(raw_image)
```

More details on how to use the model can be found in the [documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main/en/model_doc/sam).

### How to evaluate a segmentation model ?

> You have now seen how to use a segmentation model, but how can you evaluate it ? As demonstrated in the previous section, segmentation is 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have now seen how to use a segmentation model, but how can you evaluate it? As demonstrated in the previous section, segmentation is 
```
Can you remove the newline

primarily a supervised learning task. This means that the dataset is composed of images and their corresponding masks, which serve as the 
ground truth. A few metrics can be used to evaluate your model. The most common ones are:

- **The Intersection over Union (IoU) or Jaccard index** metric is the ratio between the intersection and the union of the predicted mask and the ground truth. 
IoU is arguably the most common metric used in segmentation tasks. Its advantage lies in being less sensitive to class imbalance, making 
it often a good choice when you begin modeling.

![IoU](https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-vision/course-assets/blob/main/iou.png)

- **Pixel accuracy**: Pixel accuracy is calculated as the ratio of the number of correctly classified pixels to the total number of pixels. 
While being an intuitive metric, it can be misleading due to its sensitivity to class imbalance.

![Pixel accuracy](https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-vision/course-assets/blob/main/pixel-accuracy.png)

- **Dice coefficient**: It's the ratio between the double of the intersection and the sum of the predicted mask and the ground truth.

> The dice coefficient is simply the percentage of overlap between the prediction and the groundthrouth. It's a good metric to use when 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dice coefficient is simply the percentage of overlap between the prediction and the ground truth. It's a good metric to use when 
```

need sensibility to small difference between the overlap.

![Dice coefficient](https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-vision/course-assets/blob/main/dice-coefficient.png)

## Resources and Further Reading

- [Segment Anything Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.02643)
- [Fine-tuning Segformer blog post](https://huggingface.co/blog/fine-tune-segformer)
- [Mask2former blog post](https://huggingface.co/blog/mask2former)
- [Hugging Face's documentation on segmentation tasks](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main/tasks/semantic_segmentation)

> - If you want to go deeper in the topic, I recommend you to check out stanford's [Lecture](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nDPWywWRIRo).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you want to go deeper into the topic, we recommend you to check out Stanford's [lecture on segmentation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nDPWywWRIRo).
```

The intuition behind this task is *that it can be viewed as a classification for each pixel of the image*.
Segmentation models are the 
core models in various industries. They can be found in agriculture and autonomous driving. In the farming world, these models are used 
for identifying different land sections and assessing the growth stage of crops. They're also key players for self-driving cars, where 
they are used to identify lanes, sidewalks, and other road users.

![Image segmentation](https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-vision/course-assets/blob/main/segmentation-example.png)

Different types of segmentations can be applied depending on the context and the intended goal.
The most commonly defined segmentations are:
- **Semantic Segmentation**  This involves assigning the most probable class to each pixel. For example, in semantic segmentation, 
the model does not distinguish between two individual cats but rather focuses on the pixel class. It's all about classification of 
each pixel.
- **Instance Segmentation** This type involves identifying each instance of an object with a unique mask. It combines aspects of 

> object detection and segmentation to differentiate between individual objects of the same class.

Reviewer 2: Maybe you can add that in difference to Semantic Segmentation not each pixel of the image needs to be assigned to some class/instance (if I recall correctly)

an instance to each pixel, effectively integrating the *what* and *where* aspects of the image.

![Comparaison of segmentation types](https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-vision/course-assets/blob/main/segmentation-types.png)

Choosing the right segmentation type depends on the context and the intended goal. One cool thing is that recent models allow you to achieve the three 
segmentation types with a single model. We recommend you to check out this [article](https://huggingface.co/blog/mask2former), which introduces Mask2former, 
a new model by Meta that achieves the three segmentation types with only a Panoptic dataset

### Modern approach: ViT-based Segmentation

You've probably heard of U-Net, a popular network used for image segmentation. It's designed with several convolutional layers and works 
in two main phases: the downsampling phase, which compresses the image to understand its features, and the upsampling phase, which expands 
the image back to its original size for detailed segmentation.

Computer vision was once dominated by convolutional models, but it has recently shifted towards the vision transformer approach. 

> An example is *[Segment anything model (SAM)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.02643)* that its popular prompt based model introduced 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An example is *[Segment anything model (SAM)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.02643)* that is a popular prompt based model introduced 
```

> in April 2023 by *Meta AI Research, FAIR*. The model is based on Vision Transformer (ViT) model focuses on creating a promptable 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in April 2023 by *Meta AI Research, FAIR*. The model is based on the Vision Transformer (ViT) model and focuses on creating a promptable 
```

(i.e. you can provide words to describe what you would like to segment in the image) segmentation model capable of 
zero-shot transfer on new images. The strength of the model comes from its training on the largest dataset available, which includes over 
1 billion masks on 11 million images. I recommend you play with [Meta's demo](https://segment-anything.com/) on a few images and even 
better you can play with the [model](https://huggingface.co/ybelkada/segment-anything) in transformers. 

Here is an example of how to use the model in transformers:
```python
from transformers import pipeline
pipe = pipeline("mask-generation", model="facebook/sam-vit-base", device=0)
 
raw_image = Image.open("path/to/image").convert("RGB")

masks = pipe(raw_image)
```

More details on how to use the model can be found in the [documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main/en/model_doc/sam).

> ### How to evaluate a segmentation model ?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How to Evaluate a Segmentation Model?
```

ground truth. A few metrics can be used to evaluate your model. The most common ones are:

- **The Intersection over Union (IoU) or Jaccard index** metric is the ratio between the intersection and the union of the predicted mask and the ground truth. 
IoU is arguably the most common metric used in segmentation tasks. Its advantage lies in being less sensitive to class imbalance, making 
it often a good choice when you begin modeling.

![IoU](https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-vision/course-assets/blob/main/iou.png)

- **Pixel accuracy**: Pixel accuracy is calculated as the ratio of the number of correctly classified pixels to the total number of pixels. 
While being an intuitive metric, it can be misleading due to its sensitivity to class imbalance.

![Pixel accuracy](https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-vision/course-assets/blob/main/pixel-accuracy.png)

- **Dice coefficient**: It's the ratio between the double of the intersection and the sum of the predicted mask and the ground truth.
The dice coefficient is simply the percentage of overlap between the prediction and the ground truth. It's a good metric to use when 

> need sensibility to small difference between the overlap.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
you need sensibility to small differences between the overlap.
```

![Dice coefficient](https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-vision/course-assets/blob/main/dice-coefficient.png)

## Resources and Further Reading

- [Segment Anything Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.02643)
- [Fine-tuning Segformer blog post](https://huggingface.co/blog/fine-tune-segformer)
- [Mask2former blog post](https://huggingface.co/blog/mask2former)
- [Hugging Face's documentation on segmentation tasks](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main/tasks/semantic_segmentation)

> - If you want to go deeper into the topic, we recommend you to check out Stanford's [lecture on segmentation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nDPWywWRIRo).

Reviewer 2: Or you can watch the HF CV Study Group Session on Segmentation and SAM here : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0eQMtbJ3_D4&t=1s 
(Feel free to add it if you want, but you absolutely don't have to) ;)
